---
layout: post                          # (require) default post layout
title: "My new Photocopier Monitoring Tools!!!"                   # (require) a string title
date: 2023-08-10       # (require) a post date
categories: [python,tech,linux]          # (custom) some categories, but makesure these categories already exists inside path of `category/`
tags: [olivetti,konicaminolta]                      # (custom) tags only for meta `property="article:tag"`
image: ProfilePic.png             # (custom) image only for meta `property="og:image"`, save your image inside path of `static/img/_posts`
---

My photocopier ran out of ink. Right when we really needed it. So I came up with a hacky solution!
I wrote a Python script using Selenium and BeautifulSoup that pulls the HTML from the copier's web dashboard and selects the ink levels. It then determines whether or not to send a text to the user based on whether or not any ink level has gone below 10%. If so, an SMS is sent using Twilio which looks like this:
```
Copier ink is [LOW/EMPTY] - Yel 10%, Mag 56%, Cya 2%, Bla 79%
```

I run the script on a weekly cronjob on my Raspberry Pi server to alert us when new ink needs to be ordered. The script is made for Olivetti/Konica photocopiers and should work for most models made in the last few years (not sure exactly, perhaps a community made compatibility list would be good 🤣). Anyway, it works perfectly on my Olivetti MF223.
I have also written another script, soon to be published, which gets the meter readings from the copier and automatically emails the copier maintenance/leasing company, which will run on a monthly cronjob.
The repo is here: [Ink-Monitor](https://github.com/tramcrazy/Ink-Monitor)
Let me know if you would like a more detailed code breakdown/runthrough - I'll see what I can put together for the [YouTube channel](https://youtube.com/@tramcrazy). Do leave your thoughts/experiences with hacky printer scripts in the comments, I'd be interested to hear if you've done anything similar.
---
P.S sorry for not posting for ages on here, I've been busy and have somewhat (very much) neglected this blog, and for that matter, the [YT channel](https://youtube.com/@tramcrazy).
